# Extra Credit Fingerprinting

which explains what you did, how the demo works, and any limitations you encounter.


Firstly, I understood that python and ruby might be an easier place to work with fingerprinting as I can save all of the information on a database and get it to work through saving a user id and the value that is inputted and have my script just look back at that database if my user clears their cookies with the button. Then I moved onto jsp. This was a little more difficult as I used tomcat and proxied it through apache in order to fullfil the requirements of this assignment. I had to do some research on how to make a database in tomcat when I stumbled across the fact that it already has something similar to a database this is an application object that stores a "Global Map" that persists even if the specific user's session is invalidated. I used this and AJAX in order to get the jsp one to work. I also used FingerprintJS to do all of the unique visitorID generation. One of the things that I did that I thought was really cool and shows the point of this assignment is the fact that I made python and ruby persistant. Meaning that if one of them saves something then the other one will show it to through fingerprinting and server side memory. The demo works by clearing the cookies when the clear cookie button is hit but it also triggers a look up when a user with no cookies with this website comes in to see if their userID is captured. If it is, it will display the last thing that that user entered in the text feild. Overall there are four main phases. The first is the save phase where the hidden form captures the visitorId and sends it to the server during the POST request. Then is the break phase where the clear button deletes the session in JSP's case and just deletes the cookies in python and ruby's case. This the whole point of the original assignment(to show that when the cookies are deleted their data is also removed). Then comes the reassociation phase. This is where AJAX gets the information and sees if the server recognizes the current devices fingerprint. Lastly, the restore phase, I made it so that there is a forced restoration of the session or the cookie that brings the last text that they saved back onto the screen. One of the limitations that I faced was that different browsers on the same computer caused for there to be different userIds. I discovered this because I normally use Arc, but wanted to make sure that it worked on all browsers as this is not a common browser. I then tested it on Chrome and when I checked my database there was a different userId that popped up that was different from my Arc one. When I moved it to Safari another unique userId popped up.